











                                    Acromag, Inc.
                                 30765 S.Wixom Road
              
                              Wixom, Michigan 48393-7037

                                Phone: (248)295-0310
                                 FAX: (248)624-9234

                                Linux Software Library
                        Information File for the AP235 Boards
                                        V1.0
                                      12/01/15




               The  information  in this manual is subject to  change
               without notice.   Acromag,  Inc.  makes no warranty of
               any kind with regard to this material and accompanying
               software,  including, but not limited to , the implied
               warranties  of  merchantability  and  fitness  for   a
               particular   purpose.    Acromag,   Inc.   assumes  no
               responsibility for any errors that may appear in  this
               manual and accompanying software.

               See GPL.txt and LGPL.txt.





































   1. Overview

   This  "information"  file  contains a description of  the library
   programs used for the following models of Acromag Industrial  I/O
   Boards:

        AP235  16-Bit Analog Output Board



   2. Introduction

   The  software for  the  AP235  Output  board  is  implemented  as
   a library of "C" functions.  This will  make  it     possible  to
   utilize the board by simply  linking  the user's  code  with  the
   provided   library   and   making   function   calls   for   each
   "command"  to be accomplished.  Most of the function  calls  will
   require  a few parameters or the address of a parameter block  to
   be  passed.   The  parameters will  include  the  board  address,
   configuration  information,  data storage addresses,  and  status
   information. These functions accomplish the following tasks:

         - Configuration
         - Read Status
         - Write to DAC's
         - Trigger Output

   Also  included  is  a demonstration program which shows  how  the
   library  routines  are used. It  is a helpful program to use when
   first  installing the board, checking it out, and learning how it
   works.

   In this document, the term "channel" is used to describe  one  of
   16 channels. Channels are numbered 0 through 15.



   3. List of Files

   The library  software  for  each  Acromag  I/O  board  is  in   a
   correspondingly named  subdirectory on  the supplied  media.  The
   files  which  make  up the  library  for  the AP235 board are
   stored in the subdirectory named "AP235".   The  user selects
   the boardtype by modifing the defines found in the file "A235.h".

   There  are two types of program files provided.   Library program
   files are the files which make up the "library".  Support program
   files contain example  programs which show how to use the library
   programs.




				   1







   3.1 Library Program Files

   The  following  files  are   included on the  supplied  media  and
   make up the actual "library" software.


        AP235.h   - include file
        cd235.c   - routine to calculate corrected data
        cnfg235.c - configure
        rsts235.c - reads status
        rwcc235.c - reads/wirtes calibration coefficients
        wro235.c  - routine to write to DAC output registers




   3.2 Support Program Files

   The  following files are included on the supplied media.     The
   test program demonstrates how  the library  programs may be used.

        drvr235.c - test program to  demonstrate  library  programs.
        apcommon.h - include file for AP support.
        apcommon.c - source file for AP support.



   4. Software Installation

   It  is strongly advised that the user make a backup copy  of  the
   distribution media and that the original  distribution  media  be
   stored in a safe place.

   The  software is installed by simply copying the library files to
   the  user's  work directory and compiling and  linking  with  the
   user's application program.


   5. Hardware Installation

   For proper installation of each Acromag I/O board the user should
   refer to the appropriate user's manual.


   6. Usage of the Library and Support Programs

   The  software is installed  by copying the supplied files to your
   work  directory and compiling  and linking  with your application
   program.









				   2


















        It  is recommended that the user read the  User's Manual for  the
        board  and  thoroughly  familiarize themselves with the hardware.

        For a new user to become familiar with the Acromag Library it may
        be  most  "straight forward"  to proceed in the following manner:

               (a) Build and load the Acromag device driver module.

                 i)   See  the   information  file  in  the device driver
                 directory   "/home/AP/AP235/dev235/info.txt"   for
                 information about building and loading the device driver
                 module.

               (b) Build and execute the Acromag Library Demonstration.

                  i)  Copy the Acromag Library routines from the "AP235"
                  directory of the source media to a new directory  under
                  /home/AP/AP235.


                  ii)  Copy   the  apcommon  support routines  from the
                  "apcommon" directory of the source  media  to  a  new
                  directory  under /home/AP/apcommon.


                  iii) From  a  tty  shell,   make  /home/AP/AP235  the
                  current directory, then use the makefile  to  build the
                  project.

                  iv)  Launch  the  debugger,  "gdb a.out"  use the 'run' 
                  command to start the program or  './a.out' without the
                  debugger. 

                  v)   The  Acromag  Demonstration  program  menu  should
                  appear  on  the  target processor's  console  terminal.












				   3





   The following menu is displayed for the AP235:

   AP235 Library Demonstration  Rev. A   Channel: 0, Range:-10.000 to 10.000
    1. Exit Program
    2. Read Calibration Coefficients
    3. Read Status Command
    4. Attach Exception Handler
    5. Detach Exception Handler
    6. Examine/Change Current Channel
    7. Set Up Configuration Block Parameters
    8. Configure Current Channel
    9. Write Ideal Data To Output
   10. Write Corrected Data To Output
   11. Software Trigger, Waveform Enable/Disable
   12. Display Ideal/Corrected Data, Offset/Gain Coefficients
   13. Clear Data Buffers
   14. Alter Offset/Gain Coefficients
   15. Write Waveform Memory or FIFO
   Select: 

   To perform basic Analog Output functions using the AP235, follow
   this sequence of main menu selections:

       Select  2: Read calibration coefficients.
       Select  6: To select the current channel.
       Select  7: To set up configuration block parameters (select Direct Access).
       Select  8: To configure the current channel.
       Select  9: To write ideal data to the DAC channel.
       Select 10: To write corrected data to the DAC channel.

   Note: Choose 9 or 10, they perform the same basic  function  with
         the  only  difference  being  that 10  will  give corrected
         outputs, using on-board  calibration coefficients, that are
         more accurate.

       Select  11 then 4: To start conversion(s) if the Simultaneous
                  Trigger mode was selected.

   To perform Waveform Output functions using the AP235, follow this
   sequence of main menu selections:

       Select  2: Read calibration coefficients.
       Select  4: To select Attach Exception Handler.
       Select  6: To select the current channel.
       Select  7: To set up configuration block parameters (select a waveform mode).
       Select 15: To select/write corrected waveform data to the DAC channel.
       Select  8: To configure the current channel.
       Select 11 then 3: To enable waveform generation.


   6.1 Explanation of the Main Demonstration Menu

   The following is an explanation of each menu selection:

        1. Exit this Program

        This selection causes execution to be  returned to the shell.




				   4




        2. Read Calibration Coefficients.

        The rwcc235() function  is  used to  perform  the read  the
        calibration coefficients for the board.    The routine will
        use a pointer to reference registers  on the Board and will
        transfer board information into the Configuration Block.

        3. Read Status

	This menu selection will call the rsts235() function and pass
	a pointer which points to the Configuration Block  structure.
	The  current status information is read from the  board  and
	written into this structure by the rsts235() function.

        4. Attach Exception Handler

        This  menu selection allows the user to attach the interrupt
        handler for use with the demonstration program.

        5. Detach Exception Handler

        This  menu  selection detaches the  demonstration  program's
        interrupt exception handler.

        6. Examine/Change Current Channel

	This menu selection will  allow the user  to select  one of
	sixteen DAC output channels available for use on the module.

        7. Set Up Configuration Block Parameters

	This  selection will cause the Configuration Block Parameter
	Menu to be displayed.  Through that menu it will be possible
	to  enter values into the various structure members  of  the
	Configuration Block structure.   See section 6.2 for details
	on the Configuration Block Parameter Menu which follows.

        8. Configure Channel

	This  menu selection will call the  cnfg235()  function  and
	pass  a  pointer  which points to  the  Configuration  Block
	structure.    Information  in  the  Configuration Block will
	be written to the channel.

        9. Write Ideal Data to Output

        This command will calculate an ideal(uncorrected) data count
        based on your desired  voltage and write it  to  the current
        DAC channel.

        10. Write Corrected Data to Output

        This command will calculate a corrected data count using the
        gain and offset coefficients and write it to the current DAC
        channel. Use this selection to obtain greatest accuracy.






				   5





        11. Software Trigger, Waveform Enable/Disable

        This  command will  write a 1 to the  "Simultaneous Trigger"
        register.  This must be done in order for the board to start
        generating outputs if the Simultaneous Trigger Mode has been
        selected.   For  waveform  generation  modes  Enable/disable
        waveform generation may also be selected.

        12. Display Ideal/Corrected Data, Gain/Offset Coefficients

        Displays the data and coefficients for each  channel on  the
        board, where ID  = ideal(uncorrected)  data, CD  = corrected
        data, GD  = gain  data(coefficient), and  OD  = offset  data
        (coefficient).

        13. Clear Data Buffers

        Clears out all of the ideal and corrected data buffers.

        14. Alter Offset/Gain Coefficients

        This selection allows  the user to  alter the  gain, and  offset
        coefficients read from the board.   The  user  may determine his
        own  gain and offset coefficients by measuring the zero and full
        scale  output voltages  with a DVM,  typing the  values into the
        program,  and load  them into  the gain and offset data buffers.

        15. Write Waveform Memory or FIFO

        The user may  select one of several  waveform types  to write to
        waveform memory or the channels FIFO register depending upon the
        conversion mode selected.




























				   6




   6.2  Explanation of the Configuration Parameter Menu

   This menu  is  displayed  when  the  user  selects  the  "Set  Up
   Configuration  Block  Parameters"  menu  item  from  the  Library
   Demonstration Menu.   Through the Configuration Parameter Menu it
   will  be  possible  for  the  user  to  enter  values  into  the
   configuration structure.    The configuration structure is used by
   the cnfg235()function.      Following is the "Set Up Configuration
   Parameters" menu.

		Configuration Parameters for Channel 0

		 1. Return to Previous Menu
                 2. Operation Mode:	4
                 3. Output Update Mode: 0
                 4. Output Range:       0
                 5. Power-up Voltage:   1
                 6. Thermal Shutdown:   0
                 7. 5% Overrange:       0
                 8. Clear Voltage:      1
                 9. Data Reset:         0
                10. Full Device Reset:  0
                11. Trigger Source:     1
                12. Trigger Direction:  0
                13. Underflow Clear:    1
                14. Timer Divider:      1000
                15. Interrupt Source:   1

		Select:

	     Following is an explanation of each menu selection:

	     1. Return to Previous Menu

	     This selection returns the user to the Main Library Menu.

	     2. Operation Mode

	     This  selection  allows  the user to enter  the DAC  channel
             operation mode.  Valid values are as follows:

	             Value
	             -----
		       0 - Direct Access
		       1 - Continuous
                       2 - FIFO
                       3 - Single Burst
                       4 - FIFO DMA

	     3. Output Update Mode

	     This selection allows  the user to  enter a  value  for  the
	     Output Update Mode.  Valid values are as follows:

	             Value
	             -----
		       0 - Transparent Mode
		       1 - Simultaneous Mode



				   7





	     4. Output Range

	     This selection allows  the user to  enter a  value  for  the
	     Output Range.  Valid values are as follows:

	             Value
	             -----
		       0 -  -10V to +10V
		       1 -    0V to +10V
		       2 -   -5V to +5V
		       3 -    0V to +5V
		       4 - -2.5V to +7.5V
		       5 -   -3V to +3V

	     5. Power-up Voltage

	     This  selection  allows  the user to enter a value  for  the
	     Power-up Voltage.  Valid values are as follows:

 	            Value
	             -----
		       0 -  Zero Scale
		       1 -  Mid Scale
		       2 -  Full Scale

	     6. Thermal Shutdown

	     This  selection  allows  the user to enter a value  for  the
	     Thermal Shutdown.  Valid values are as follows:

	             Value
 	            -----
		       0 -  Disable
		       1 -  Enable

	     7. 5% Overrange

	     This  selection  allows  the user to enter a value  for  the
	     5% Overrange.  Valid values are as follows:

	             Value
	             -----
		       0 -  Disable
		       1 -  Enable

	     8. Clear Voltage

	     This  selection  allows  the user to enter a value  for  the
	     Clear Voltage.  Valid values are as follows:

 	            Value
	             -----
		       0 -  Zero Scale
		       1 -  Mid Scale
		       2 -  Full Scale





				   8





	     9. Data Reset

	     This  selection  allows  the user to enter a value  for  the
	     Data Reset.  Valid values are as follows:

 	            Value
	             -----
		       0 -  Disable
		       1 -  Enable

	     10. Full Device Reset

	     This  selection  allows  the user to enter a value  for  the
	     Full Device Reset.  Valid values are as follows:

 	            Value
	             -----
		       0 -  Disable
		       1 -  Enable

	     11. Trigger Source

	     This  selection  allows  the user to enter a value  for  the
	     Trigger Source.  Valid values are as follows:

 	            Value
	             -----
		       0 -  Software
		       1 -  Timer
                       2 -  External Input

	     12. Trigger Direction

	     This  selection  allows  the user to enter a value  for  the
	     Trigger Direction.  Valid values are as follows:

 	            Value
	             -----
		       0 -  Input
		       1 -  Output

	     13. Underflow Clear

	     This  selection  allows  the user to enter a value  for  the
	     Underflow Clear.  Valid values are as follows:

 	            Value
	             -----
		       0 -  No Operation
		       1 -  Underflow Clear

	     14. Timer Divider

	     This  selection  allows  the user to enter a value  for  the
	     Timer Divider.      This controls the period of the internal
             trigger the minimum recommended value is 0x136.




				   9






	     15. Interrupt Source

	     This  selection  allows  the user to enter a value  for  the
	     Interrupt Source.  Valid values are as follows:

 	            Value
	             -----
		       0 -  Disabled
		       1 -  FIFO or Single Burst



   7. Description of Library Programs.

   Following  are descriptions of the programs and files which  make
   up the library.

   AP235.h - This module contains  the  definitions  and  structures
   used by the library.



   void rcc235 - This  routine is  used  to  read  the  calibration
   coefficients from the board and store them in an array.

        calling sequence:

        rcc235(ptr)

        where:

        ptr  - (structure  pointer)  This is a pointer  to  the
        Configuration Block structure.





   void cd235 - This routine calculates the corrected data for all channels.

        calling sequence:

        cd235(ptr)

        where:

        ptr  - (structure  pointer)  This is a pointer  to  the
        Configuration Block structure.


     NOTE: the ideal count value must be  calculated and  stored  in
     the configuration  block structure  for this  function to  work
     properly.






				   10






   void wro235 - This  is  the routine  that  actually  writes  the
   desired output data into the DAC channel register.

        calling sequence:

        wro235(ptr, channel)

        where:
        ptr  - (structure  pointer)  This is a pointer  to  the
        Configuration Block structure.

        channel(int) - is the DAC channel register number to write
        to (0 - 0xF).



   void cnfg235 - This module is used to perform the "configure channel"
   function for the AP235 board.  A pointer to the Configuration Block
   will be passed to this routine.  The routine will use a pointer
   within the Configuration Block to reference the registers
   on the Board.  Based on attributes in the Configuration Block, the
   board will be configured and various registers will be updated with
   new information which will be transfered from the Configuration
   Block to registers on the Board.

        calling sequence:

        cnfg235(ptr, channel)

        where:
        ptr  - (structure  pointer)  This is a pointer  to  the
        Configuration Block structure.

        channel(int) - is the DAC channel register number to write
        to (0 - 0xF).




   void rsts235 - This module is used to perform the read status function
    for the board.  A pointer to the configuration block will be passed to
    this routine.  The routine will use a pointer within the configuration
    block together with offsets to reference the registers on the board and
    will transfer the information from the board.

        calling sequence:

        rsts235(ptr)

        where:
        ptr  - (structure  pointer)  This is a pointer  to  the
        Configuration Block structure.







				   11






   8. Description of Support Programs

   Following  is  a  description of the support  files  and  program
   modules  which  provide  examples  for  the  use  of  the library
   programs.

   apcommon.c - This file provides AP common support routines.

   drvr235.c  - This  is a program which demonstrates the  usage  of
   the library modules.   This program is menu driven and allows the
   user to become familiar with the  AP235  board  and  the library
   software.   The user may,  through menu  selections,   configure,
   read from, and write to the board.














































 				   12






